---
title: Legal
fn-stub: legal
---

# Legal

In this economic-historical online archive, authentic historical sources from
the beginning of the 20th century until currently circa 1949 are made available
to you via the web.

The editorial team has taken great pains to identify the authors of the
historical material considered for online publication. Insofar as authors could
be identified and their deaths occurred less than seventy years ago, access to
individual documents is blocked until the copyright protection period expires.
We ask for your understanding in this matter.

This service and the digitization that precedes it are funded by the DFG and
the Leibniz Association. It is a purely scientific project. There is no
commercial exploitation on the part of the ZBW, i.e. access to the individual
documents is free of charge.

The data offered are generally uncommented and have not yet been catalogued by
archivists. We do not guarantee that the information contained therein is
factually correct.

Older texts, especially from the Nazi period, may contain fascist, racist or
sexist tendencies. The ZBW as a scientific service institution documents these
texts in the context of the collection, but distances itself from such content.
Recognizably illegal texts, images, links, etc. have not been included.

Editors or authors who wish to claim the non-expiry of copyright periods or
other obstacles, which bar these documents or links from being put online, are
expressly encouraged to contact the ZBW by whatever means, but most easily via
the following e-mail address:
<a href='&#109;&#97;ilto&#58;pr%&#54;5&#37;73%73%6&#53;&#109;&#97;ppe20&#64;z&#37;62%77-onli%6Ee%&#50;Ee&#117;?subject=PM20%20legal:'>pr%&#54;5&#37;73%73%6&#53;&#109;&#97;ppe20&#64;z&#37;62%77-onli%6Ee%&#50;Ee&#117;</a>

Any use of the offered documents or parts thereof is the responsibility of the
users. They are responsible for compliance with copyright or other provisions
of the legal system applicable to them.

Any brands (trademarks), work titles, company designations, designations of
origin, registered designs, patents or utility models are mentioned without any
special reference to such rights. Therefore, the absence of such a reference
does not imply that the designation in question is free of such or similar
rights. This applies in particular to historical designations, which may
continue to exist even though their historical owner has since ceased to exist.

This service uses GeoLite2 Data created by MaxMind, available from
[https://www.maxmind.com/](https://www.maxmind.com/).

_Translation based on www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)_
